Light Cleaning & Inspection
===========================
First off, take some time to inspect the machine and its main components.
All electrical cables and connectors should be checked for damage and whether they’re tightly connected. Pay special attention to the hot end and heated bed connectors, as these take up higher current, thus posing a potential fire hazard.
Screws should be re-tightened as needed. Check all belt pulley screws and tighten as needed.

NOT PERFORMING THIS TASK CAN LEAD TO:
------------------------------------
•	Dust accumulation and impairment of movement

•	Electronic malfunction due to damaged cables and connectors

Axis & Guide Checks
===================
Linear guides ensure smooth and precise motion along axes. When properly maintained, they can improve overall print quality, as FDM is highly dependent on well-controlled linear movement.
Both the linear rods with ball bearings and the linear rails with carriage slides require some sort of lubrication to reduce the wear and tear generated by friction.
Keep in mind that WD-40 is not a lubricant! Applying it to your linear rods and rails can even remove lubricant.

NOT PERFORMING THIS TASK CAN LEAD TO:
-------------------------------------
•	Excessive noise

•	Layer lines on the printed object

•	Stepper motors overheating

Belt Tension Alignment
======================
Most 3D printers utilize timing belts in at least two axes. Lightweight belts transfer motion very efficiently but must be tensioned just right.
If they’re too loose, the belt can slack and even skip teeth.
The timing belts used in desktop 3D printers are usually made of rubber and sometimes reinforced with fiberglass or steel. Regardless of the build, they’ll eventually lose tightness and require adjustment.

NOT PERFORMING THIS TASK CAN LEAD TO:
------------------------------------
•	Layer shifting

•	Backlash issues

•	Dimensionally-inaccurate prints, either bigger or small than they should be.

Nozzle Care
===========
Pay special attention to your printer’s nozzle. Even without a clog, the nozzle can externally become quite dirty. This could potentially ruin a print with blobs and also fill the room with that awful burnt-plastic smell.
 ROUTINE NOZZLE CLEANING
Try and keep the nozzle as clean as possible. Heat it up and use a wire brush to remove all melted and unmelted plastic that’s been accumulating over successive prints. Small pliers or thick cloths could also be used, but just be very careful not to burn yourself

Note: If you’re using a wire brush, it’s recommended to turn your printer off, as the extra metal can cause shorts between powered components. (There are even reports of some damaging their mainboards.)
------------------------------

NOT PERFORMING THIS TASK CAN LEAD TO:
-------------------------------------
•	Extrusion issues, such as under-extrusion and over-extrusion

•	Clogging and oozing

•	Blobs and zits

Build Platform Check
====================
Dust and grime accumulate very easily, and even the organic oils present in our fingertips is enough to ruin plastic adhesion. For glass beds, cleaning alcohol like IPA is recommended.

BED LEVELING
-----------
Once cleaned, make sure the bed is leveled. That’s also a good idea even when auto-leveling is used. For those using high thermal contraction materials like nylon or PC, perhaps PEI sheets or a hardware upgrade like a new heated bed may be suitable.

NOT PERFORMING THIS TASK CAN LEAD TO:
-------------------------------------
•	Warping

•	Uneven first layers

•	Poor first layer adhesion

Filament Care
==============
Small dust particles may accumulate on the filament depending on how the spools are stored or how long it has been sitting in the printer. Proper storage might be just what’s required to prevent particle buildup. Protection from moisture is an added bonus.

NOT PERFORMING THIS TASK CAN LEAD TO:
------------------------------------
•	Nozzle clogging and oozing

•	Friction buildup on Bowden tubes

•	Stringing due to moisture-filled filaments

Calibration
===========
Many of the preventive maintenance tasks covered so far involve disassembly and adjustments. The final step is to make sure the machine is working, and working well.
If you feel confident that everything is in working order, start with a simple print like the XYZ calibration cube. It’s a good way to check bed adhesion and surface quality while also allowing you to assess what else needs to be adjusted.
If it’s been a long time since your last thorough calibration, we strongly suggest you go through a complete calibration process.

NOT PERFORMING THIS TASK CAN LEAD TO:
-------------------------------------
•	Low-quality prints

•	Extrusion issues, such as under-extrusion and over-extrusion

•	Overheating
