### Computer-Vision
 
 
* [Computer Vision: Models, Learning, and Inference](http://www.computervisionmodels.com/) - Simon J. D. Prince 2012 - With clarity and depth, this book introduces the mathematical foundations of probabilistic models for computer vision, all with well-motivated, concrete examples and applications. Most modern computer vision texts focus on visual task. I highly recommend this book to both beginning and seasoned students and practitioners as an indispensable guide to the mathematics and models that underlie modern approaches to computer vision.
* [Computer Vision: Theory and Application](http://szeliski.org/Book/) - Rick Szeliski 2010 - It explores the variety of techniques commonly used to analyze and interpret images. It also describes challenging real-world applications where vision is being successfully used, both for specialized applications such as medical imaging, and for fun, consumer-level tasks such as image editing and stitching, which students can apply to their own personal photos and videos. Suitable for an upper-level undergraduate or graduate-level course in computer science or engineering.
* [Computer Vision: A Modern Approach (2nd edition)](https://eclass.teicrete.gr/modules/document/file.php/TM152/Books/Computer%20Vision%20-%20A%20Modern%20Approach%20-%20D.%20Forsyth,%20J.%20Ponce.pdf)- David Forsyth and Jean Ponce 2011 - This textbook provides the most complete treatment of modern computer vision methods by two of the leading authorities in the field. This accessible presentation gives both a general view of the entire computer vision enterprise and also offers sufficient detail for students to be able to build useful applications. Suitable for an upper-level undergraduate or graduate-level course in computer science or engineering.
* [Computer Vision](http://nana.lecturer.pens.ac.id/index_files/referensi/computer_vision/Computer%20Vision.pdf) - Linda G. Shapiro 2001 - Using a progressive intuitive/mathematical approach, this introduction to computer vision provides necessary theory and examples for practitioners who work in fields where significant information must be extracted automatically from images.
* [Visual Object Recognition synthesis lecture](https://www.morganclaypool.com/doi/abs/10.2200/S00332ED1V01Y201103AIM011) - Kristen Grauman and Bastian Leibe 2011 - This tutorial overviews computer vision algorithms for visual object recognition and image classification. We introduce primary representations and learning approaches, with an emphasis on recent advances in the field. The target audience consists of researchers or students working in AI, robotics, or vision who would like to understand what methods and representations are available for these problems. 
* [Computer Vision for Visual Effects](https://cvfxbook.com/) - Richard J. Radke, 2012 - omputer Vision for Visual Effects will educate students, engineers, and researchers about the fundamental computer vision principles and state-of-the-art algorithms used to create cutting-edge visual effects for movies and television.
* [High dynamic range imaging: acquisition, display, and image-based lighting](http://webstaff.itn.liu.se/~jonun/web/teaching/2009-TNCG13/Siggraph08/class/HDRI_and_IBL/HDRIcourse08.pdf) - Reinhard, E., Heidrich, W., Debevec, P., Pattanaik, S., Ward, G., Myszkowski, K 2010 - High Dynamic Range Imaging is the first book to describe this exciting new field that is transforming the media and entertainment industries. Written by the foremost researchers in HDRI, it will explain and define this new technology for anyone who works with images, whether it is for computer graphics, film, video, photography, or lighting design.
* [Numerical Algorithms: Methods for Computer Vision, Machine Learning, and Graphics](https://people.csail.mit.edu/jsolomon/share/book/numerical_book.pdf) - Justin Solomon 2015 - Numerical Algorithms: Methods for Computer Vision, Machine Learning, and Graphics presents a new approach to numerical analysis for modern computer scientists. Using examples from a broad base of computational tasks, including data processing, computational photography, and animation, the textbook introduces numerical modeling and algorithmic design from a practical standpoint and provides insight into the theoretical tools needed to support these skills. The text is designed for advanced undergraduate and beginning graduate students in computer science and related fields with experience in calculus and linear algebra. For students with a background in discrete mathematics, the book includes some reminders of relevant continuous mathematical background.




### Open-CV Programming


* [Learning OpenCV: Computer Vision with the OpenCV Library](https://www.bogotobogo.com/cplusplus/files/OReilly%20Learning%20OpenCV.pdf) - Gary Bradski and Adrian Kaehler - This library is useful for practitioners, and is an excellent tool for those entering the field: it is a set of computer vision algorithms that work as advertised. Written by the creators of the free open source OpenCV library, this book introduces you to computer vision and demonstrates how you can quickly build applications that enable computers to "see" and make decisions based on that data.
* [Practical Python and OpenCV](https://minhtn1.github.io/Practical%20Python%20and%20OpenCV,%203rd%20Edition.pdf) - Adrian Rosebrock - Practical Python and OpenCV is a non-intimidating introduction to basic image processing tasks in Python. It is for the beginner level under-graduates.
* [Mastering OpenCV with Practical Computer Vision Projects](https://www.cs.ccu.edu.tw/~damon/photo/,OpenCV/,Mastering_OpenCV.pdf) - Daniel Lelis Baggio - Each chapter in the book is an individual project and each project is constructed with step-by-step instructions, clearly explained code, and includes the necessary screenshots. You should have basic OpenCV and C/C++ programming experience before reading this book, as it is aimed at Computer Science graduates, researchers, and computer vision experts widening their expertise. 
